.. _examples_modelling_cbed_distortion_estimation_train_ml_model_set_sec:

Training a machine learning model
=================================

In this example, we perform the "action" of training a single ML model using the
training and validation ML datasets generated from the action described in
:ref:`this page
<examples_modelling_cbed_distortion_estimation_combine_ml_datasets_for_training_and_validation_then_split_sec>`.

NOTE: Users are advised to read the remainder of the current page in its
entirety before trying to execute this action.

To execute the action, first we need to change into the directory
``<root>/examples/modelling/cbed/distortion/estimation/scripts``, where
``<root>`` is the root of the ``emicroml`` repository. Then, we need to run the
Python script ``./execute_action.py`` via the terminal command::

  python execute_action.py --action=<action> --use_slurm=<use_slurm>

where ``<action>`` must be equal to ``train_ml_model_set``, and ``<use_slurm>``
is either ``yes`` or ``no``. If ``<use_slurm>`` equals ``yes`` and a SLURM
workload manager is available on the server from which you intend to run the
script, then the action will be performed as a SLURM job. If ``<use_slurm>`` is
equal to ``no``, then the action will be performed locally without using a SLURM
workload manager.

If the action is to be performed locally without using a SLURM workload manager,
then prior to executing the above Python script, a set of Python libraries need
to be installed in the Python environment within which said Python script is to
be executed. See :ref:`this page
<examples_prerequisites_for_execution_without_slurm_sec>` for instructions on
how to do so. If the action is being performed as a SLURM job, then prior to
executing any Python commands that do not belong to Python's standard library, a
customizable sequence of commands are executed that are expected to try to
either activate an existing Python virtual environment, or create then activate
one, in which the Python libraries needed to complete the action successfully
are installed. See :ref:`this page
<examples_prerequisites_for_execution_with_slurm_sec>` for instructions how to
customize the sequence of commands.

The action described at the beginning of the current page takes automatically as
input data output data generated by the action described in the page
:ref:`examples_modelling_cbed_distortion_estimation_combine_ml_datasets_for_training_and_validation_then_split_sec`,
hence one must execute the latter action first, prior to the former. Upon
successful completion of the former action, Upon successful completion of the
former action, a dictionary representation of the ML model after training is
saved to a file at the file path
``<top_level_data_dir>/ml_models/ml_model_0/ml_model_at_lr_step_<last_lr_step>.pth``,
where ``<last_lr_step>`` is an integer indicating the last learning rate step in
the ML model training procedure, and ``<top_level_data_dir>`` is
``<root>/examples/modelling/cbed/distortion/estimation/data``. Additionally, the
ML model training summary output data file is saved to
``<top_level_data_dir>/ml_models/ml_model_0/ml_model_training_summary_output_data.h5"``.

In executing the action described at the beginning of the current page, multiple
scripts are executed. The particular scripts that are executed depend on the
command line arguments of the parent Python script introduced at the beginning
of this page. If ``<use_slurm>`` equals ``yes``, then the following scripts are
executed in the order that they appear directly below:

:download:`<root>/examples/modelling/cbed/distortion/estimation/scripts/execute_action.py <../../../../../../examples/modelling/cbed/distortion/estimation/scripts/execute_action.py>`
:download:`<root>/examples/modelling/cbed/common/scripts/train_ml_model_set/execute_all_action_steps.py <../../../../../../examples/modelling/cbed/common/scripts/train_ml_model_set/execute_all_action_steps.py>`
:download:`<root>/examples/modelling/cbed/common/scripts/train_ml_model/execute_all_action_steps.py <../../../../../../examples/modelling/cbed/common/scripts/train_ml_model/execute_all_action_steps.py>`
:download:`<root>/examples/modelling/cbed/common/scripts/train_ml_model/prepare_and_submit_slurm_job.sh <../../../../../../examples/modelling/cbed/common/scripts/train_ml_model/prepare_and_submit_slurm_job.sh>`
:download:`<root>/examples/modelling/cbed/common/scripts/train_ml_model/execute_main_action_steps.py <../../../../../../examples/modelling/cbed/common/scripts/train_ml_model/execute_main_action_steps.py>`

Otherwise, if ``<use_slurm>`` equals ``no``, then the fourth script, i.e. the
one with the basename ``prepare_and_submit_slurm_job.sh`` is not executed. See
the contents of the scripts listed above for implementation details. The last
script uses the module :mod:`emicroml.modelling.cbed.distortion.estimation`. It
is recommended that you consult the documentation of said module as you explore
said script. Lastly, if the action is being performed as a SLURM job, then the
default ``sbatch`` options, which are specified in the file with the basename
``prepare_and_submit_slurm_job.sh``, can be overridden by following the
instructions in :ref:`this page <examples_overriding_sbatch_options_sec>`.
